What is the primary key
A primary key is a special relational database table column (or combination of columns) designated to uniquely identify all table records. 
A primary key’s main features are:
It must contain a unique value for each row of data.
It cannot contain null values.
A primary key is either an existing table column or a column that is specifically generated by the database according to a defined sequence.

Why do we need it? 
You need your table to be joinable on something.
If you want your table to be clustered, you need some kind of a primary key.
If your table design does not need a primary key, rethink your design: most probably, you are missing something.

What is the foreign key? 
A foreign key is a column or group of columns in a relational database table that provides a link between data in two tables. It acts as a cross-reference between tables because it references the primary key of another table, thereby establishing a link between them. 
The majority of tables in a relational database system adhere to the foreign key concept. In complex databases and data warehouses, data in a domain must be added across multiple tables, thus maintaining a relationship between them. The concept of referential integrity is derived from foreign key theory. 
Foreign keys and their implementation are more complex than primary keys.

What is the purpose of foreign keys? 
Foreign keys are used to reference unique columns in another table. So, for example, a foreign key can be defined on one table A, and it can reference some unique column(s) in another table B. Why would you want a foreign key? Well, whenever it makes sense to have a relationship between columns in two different tables.

What is the difference between a primary and foreign key? 
While unique and primary keys both enforce uniqueness on the column(s) of one table, foreign keys define a relationship between two tables. A foreign key identifies a column or group of columns in one (referencing) table that refers to a column or group of columns in another (referenced) table.
Both unique and primary keys can be referenced by foreign keys.

Primary Key	
1.Primary key uniquely identify a record in the table.	
2.Primary Key can't accept null values.	
3.By default, Primary key is clustered index and data in the database table is physically organized in the sequence of clustered index.	
4.We can have only one Primary key in a table.	

Foreign Key
1.Foreign key is a field in the table that is primary key in another table.
2.Foreign key can accept multiple null value.
3.Foreign key do not automatically create an index, clustered or non-clustered. You can manually create an index on foreign key.
4.We can have more than one foreign key in a table.