This info is taken from internet.


C# is a multi-paradigm programming language which is based on object-oriented and component-oriented programming disciplines.
It provides a framework for free intermixing constructs from different paradigms.
It uses the “best tool for the job” since no one paradigm solves all problems in the most efficient way.
C# was developed by Microsoft with Anders Hejlsberg as the principal designer and lead architect, 
within its .NET initiative and it made its appearance in 2000.
C# was intended to be a simple, modern, object-oriented language.
The language and implementation had to provide support for software engineering principles like strong type checking, array bounds checking and automatic garbage collection.
The language was intended for development of software components suitable for deployment in distributed environments.




.NET framework is a software framework primarily for Microsoft Windows. It includes a large library & provides language interoperability across several programming languages.
Programs written for the .NET Framework execute in a software environment, as opposed to a hardware one for most other programs.
 Common examples of such programs include Visual Studio, Team Explorer UI, Sharp Develop .
Programmers combine their own source code with the .NET Framework and other libraries. 
The .NET Framework is intended to be used by most new applications created for the Windows platform.
.NET was developed by Microsoft in the mid 1990s, originally under the name of ‘Next Generation Windows Services’.
Interoperability: .NET Framework provides means to access functionality implemented in newer and older programs that execute outside the .NET environment.
Access to COM components is provided in the System.Runtime.InteropServices and System.EnterpriseServices namespaces of the framework.
Language Independence: .NET Framework introduces Common Type System which define all possible data types & programming constructs supported by CLR & ruled for their interaction as per CLI specification.
This allows the exchange of types & object instances between libraries & their applications written using any conforming .NET language.
